# Compilers-1-CS3320
Here I upload mark down files for assignments.

# **Mini Assignment 1**
## **_Compilers-1: CS3320_**
### Name: Naitik Malav ||  Roll No.: CS19BTECH11026 
# 
#
##### 1. Write a short note on various options in common compilers: GCC and LLVM
About GCC:
GCC stands for GNU Compilation Collection. We can compile c or cpp source codes using GCC products like gcc is  mainly used for compiling, preprocessing, linking and assembling of c source codes whereas g++ is mainly used for compilation, preprocessing, assembling and linking of c++ source codes. Both of them generates executable file for given source code. You can also compile c and c++ source code using any of gcc and g++, the only difference is gcc treates c and c++ source code as c and c++ codes(i.e. seperately) while g++ treats both of them as c++ codes.

Options available in gcc:
- Using -o command line you can name the executable file. Eg: gcc main.c -o helios , So after executing the above command, executable file namely helios is generated. 
- If you want to enable warnings for the source code, then you can do it by using -Wall. It will show warnings in cases like if variable is not assigned or not declared but used somewhere, etc-etc.
- There are also many other options available for gcc like @ option, -S for producing assembly code, -E for producing preprocessor code, -C for producing compiled code, etc-etc. There's a lot flexibilty while compiling source codes with these options.

About LLVM:
LLVM stands for low level virtual machine which is basically a collection of reusable compilers and it's a toolchain kind of technology. People are using it for developing front end for any programming language as well as back end for any instruction set architecture.

Options available in llvm:
There are various command line options available in llvm - 
- like options to control errors and warning messages, eg: -Werror, -Wno-error, -w, -Wfoo, etc.
- options to control Clang clash diagnostics. eg: -fno-crash-diagnostics
- options available for emit optimization reports, emit resource consumption reports, etc. eg: -fproc-stat-report.

# 
# 
##### 2. Write a note on the various frontends that these compilers support.
In the present time, the front ends supported by gcc are mainly for- C(gcc), C++(g++), Objective C, Go, D, Ada(GNAT), Fortran, etc.

In the present time, the fronts ends dupported by llvm are for- Java Bytecode, D, Swift, C#, Kotlin, Rust, OpenCL etc.

#
#
##### 3. Use these compilers to generate code for various architectures using its various backends and report your findings.
Here's my C code for finding factorial of n.

#include <stdio.h>

int compare(int x, int y) {
   if(x>y)    
        printf("%d is greater than %d\n", x, y);
   else if(x<y)
        printf("%d is less than %d\n", x, y);
    else
        printf("%d is equal to %d\n", x, y);
}

int main(void) {
    int x;
    scanf("%d", &x);
    int y;
    scanf("%d", &y);
    compare(x, y);
}

for x64, size of executable file is : 44832 bytes,
for 32bit ARM, size of executable file is : 48234 bytes,
for 64bit ARM, size of executable file is : 49896 bytes.
it's increasing in size
#
#
##### 4. Compilers come with various optimization levels: Focusing on options O0, O1, O2, O3  as well as -Os, -Oz, run various codes using these predetermined passes and report your findings.

in case of -o0 : size=16,832 bytes, real time=0m0.001s
in case of -o1 : size=16,832 bytes, real time=0m0.001s
in case of -o2 : size=16,832 bytes, real time=0m0.001s
in case of -o3 : size=16,832 bytes, real time=0m0.001s
in case of -os : size=16,832 bytes, real time=0m0.001s
in case of -oz : size=16,832 bytes, real time=0m0.001s

time is nearly same because it's a very small program. But for large programs order is increasing time with inscreasing in levels, i.e. level2 has more completion time than level1, but binary file generated by level2 is improved in performance.  
